Hey, I'm not sure why I've taken so long to just sit down and write this, I think a number of reasons can be highlighted but chief among them is an inability to simplify important concepts that have come to mean a lot to me. Additionally I have gained most of my ideas on gender theory from video essayists I enjoy watching, and I cant in good conscious recommend a bunch of three hour youtube videos to anyone with a job 

**Do I try to explain this thing with terms and definitions?** Well that route feels like cold taxonomy, something that can really only offer shallow information. 
**Do I try to sell you on a worldview?** While this will get closer to understanding my perspective, that perspective would be singular and a lot of the power within this community comes dissimilar people and perspectives bound by similar feelings. 
**Do I try to hand wave this away?** This is very tempting, but explaining trans people by saying "its complicated", though true, puts walls around concepts you are already familiar with but havent examined with a trans lens 

Genneral resource page: https://www.reddit.com/r/Trans_Resources/wiki/further_resources/index/#wiki_media_.28_books.2C_movies.2C_series_.29

**Terms**
So basically I think the thing thats most important to know is that **trans** is an umbrella term for people who's experience with gender is atypical. For this reason efforts to categorize and boil down the trans term will always work to divide us and leave vulnerable people out to dry. That being said, words are practical and communication is very difficult without them. Here is a term glossary: https://transactual.org.uk/glossary/

**What I am trying to pursue**
A short description of my personal understanding is as follows: For the large majority of my life I have been semi comfortable living as a boy/man that expresses more femininity than most boys/men. For the past five years that has really shifted, as I grew up I felt something closing in on who I was and what my future looked like, how I would be socially permitted to look and dress, What my relationship to the women in my life would look like, even if I kept this femininity to my identity as a man I would still be required to fill masculine social roles that I wanted literally nothing to do with. In short that picture of who I would end up becoming sat in the back of my head, creating indescribably hopelessness, and pervading every thought of the future. With the added context of what it felt like to dress as a woman, the occasional dream where I had a woman's body, and the femininity I was already performing in my daily life, It became very clear that if it were possible to become a woman, I would like to. If this is all sounding very dramatic ... yes, I am aware. 

My idea of gender 

**Discrimination, Dogwhistles, and Control** 
Why do I think discrimination happens: Some may disagree but I largely think its about disgust and control, I think most lgbtq+ discrimination has to do with queer people deviating from dominant cultural norms and  underlying disgust at queer bodies. Feminist literature spends a lot of time talking about how dividing men and women into two solid categories with different traits, skills, and roles, makes both groups easier to control and exploit. Critiques to that rigid picture of gender almost always threaten those systems of culturally accepted exploitation.

There is nothing natural about shaved legs, but our cultural idea of femininity is associated with smooth skin. When a cis woman chooses to not shave her legs, like it or not that choice says something about her level of commitment to the patriarchal ideal of a desirable woman. Transness like feminism is the process of demanding freedom in those choices, and ensuring legal protections for those who cannot conform to the gender roles of the sex they were assigned at birth.

The dominant rhetoric about Trans women often depicts us as imposters, threats to cis women and children. We are used as a scapegoat for a society that is comfortable with violence towards women. Im of the opinion that when our communities are not willing to hold men accountable, it becomes far easier to say that that violence is inevitable, that something about men (their biology) that is inherently hostile and cannot be blamed for the harm they do. So if you refuse to believe I am a woman, I become a dangerous presence in women's spaces, biologically driven to hurt people. Hence our depiction as monsters and freaks

The dominant rhetoric about trans men is closer to erasure, often seen as confused young girls sacrificing their womanhood. Conservatives will emphasize their biology by pointing to loss of fertility as a loss of function (see a very famous anti trans book called "irreversible damage" , a loss of purpose. 
