---
tags: []
aliases:
---

 # TC and Overview

You are unwelcome, condescended to by unorganized unprepared outsiders, pariahs of your homeland for an unseemly desire for independence. You've allowed the newcomers to call you alchemists, but [[tannia]] is the word you call yourself, a name given to you long ago by your mother, the ancient dragon [[Tanniaxs]], a name not permitted to roll over unforked tongues. You may be small but none with any sense would call you weak, you stand in a sheildwall with your brothers and sisters, proudly wearing your draconic nobility on painted scales.

An abridged history: Tannians were here before anyone else in this land. you, along with the [[The Entangled|Seers]], the [[Arcadian Court]], the [[Goblin|Goblin Court]] and later the [[Seraphs]] built [[Xylaan]],"the forest", together, a community and ecosystem absolutely brimming with life. But, as centuries passed and the entity that connects the whole of xylaan slowly and steadily grew to godhood, xylaan became something with increasing presence and sentience. Tannians were at the forefront of this growth, with the seers tending the network, the arcadians ruling, and the goblins building, the kobolds worked in concert with xylaan to study this beautiful land, your culture cared for and even created what we understand as xylaan's ecosystem and biology. Because of this your people were the first to let out a warning of xylaan's burdening godhood, ultimately unsuccessful at halting its growth the hive mind as it exists now was able to overide your decent for a long time, lulling each creatures mind 



 - Core concepts and Ideas
	 - **Xylaan:** "Xylaan is both a land and a being. It aspires to be a single being, a figure that encompasses every organism within its body thinking, growing, breathing together. In the total isolation of our seal they had moments very close to this vision. If one can imagine a god having singular identity, see Xylaan as a gardener."
	 - **Network and the Germ:** Running throughout Xylaan (L) is a vast and dense mycelial network, this makes makes up the body of Xylaan (E). The network grants low level psionic connection to all those that have bonded to it. This process involves taking in and growing a spore, primarily referred to as a "germ" of the network in ones body. This piece of the network is disconnected from Xylaan (E) itself, and several variations of this germ have been crafted and engineered to provide a wide variety of additional effects. The network constantly emits signal radially from its flesh, similar to that of a magnetic field emitted by a wire with active current. The strength of ones connection is primarily dependent on proximity.
	 - **Sugar:** Both the biodiversity and mega-flora and mega-fauna found in xylaan are supported by the presence of {sugar} an energy dense molecule produced and released in abundance by nearly all things capable of photosynthesis. Typically very difficult to break down, even for those producing it, an organisms symbiotic relationship with its germ allows them to use this energy source with ease. This however comes at a cost, if deprived of {sugar} a germ will look for energy wherever they can find it, leaving its host emaciated and eventually dead.
	 - **Polyphony:** "When one walks through xylaan they are met with the thoughts and voices of every organism within ten miles. These sounds meld together into an indescribable clamor, though the more time I spend here, the more I feel this place as a song, voices chanting against eachother and then something entirely different, a thread pulling me, an object trying to render itself in my head,  all of it just beyond my comprehension" The psionic connection that the network provides resembles something like language. Most creatures communicate in a variation on the same psionic language, that is most capable at conveying raw emotion and simple concepts. This language can break down when entities of wildly different species attempt to communicate, for example an giant lungfish would have a bit of trouble finding common ground with a desert shrub. This, however, is not the only form ofd telepathic communication in xylaan. For the species with a higher capacity for focus have developed private communication pathways that best suit their communities.
 - Geography and regions important concepts
	 - In terms of the earths surface, Xylaan can be split into a couple regions, the deadland, chaparral, alpine, the rainforest, deciduous, the Arcadian sea, and the grove. Xylaan, however is differentiated vertically as much as it is horizontally, beneath the earth and water the mycelium ebbs and flows in strength, lending strength to people and areas that it relies on for its function as an organism. Above there is a thick cloud of mist, swirling lethargically with the wind. Produced from the exhalation of every creature that can photosynthesize, sugars take a gaseous form at room temperature and slowly drift upward, consolidating in the sugar layer. This layer is home to an unimaginable amount of biodiversity, supporting billions of microbes and creatures able to drift through it including a consistent presence of the germ. 
	 - **Chaparral:** The chaparral region is defined by a dry climate and distance from xylaan's heart, a valley between the foothills of xylaan's Northern mountain range and the tallons, this region receives a proportionally small amount of connection to the network or the sugar layer. 
	 - **Arcadian sea:** the Arcadian sea is an enormous lake nestled against a finger of the tallons that curves around xylaan's southern edge. Home to the arcadian court it holds the wealth of xylaan, a massive stockpile of sugar stored in liquid and solid form to preserve its stability. Immiscible in water and much heavier, the sugar sits below 20 ft of clear water.
	 - **Alpine:** The alpine defined as a region by its elevation more than is physical space, it is the crust of colorful lichen that makes rings around each mountain, thousands of organismas packed into the mountain crags, soaking in the sugar layer, dying and calcifying on the mountains surface, giving way to its descendants to build even further out, for moss to find purchase in its nooks and crannys, for critters to build nests in, for small birds to hunt said critters, and so on and so on 
	 - **Rain forest and it's Abyssal dark:** closer to the planet's equator dis place humid 
 - Xylaani Peoples:
	 - **Alchemists:**
	 - **Goblin Court:** An offshoot from the feywild's goblin court, settled in then grassland region, the goblin court has a long history as xylaan's cunning crafters, creating a great deal of its built infrastructure. On one hand these are fickle, violent, and spiteful creatures with a pension for authoritarian power they have started hundreds of huge projects leaving nearly all of them unfinished and canibalised for other works, on the other, they are responsible for incredible feats of design and have built entire systems for how xylaan processes its transportation, waste, network pathways, etc. yo`
	 - **Seers:** These creatures are highly tuned to psionic power and have remarkable capacity for focus. Living appendages to the network they are worshiped by some as emissaries of xylaan and feared by others for unearthly ability to weird define power through the network. A seers life cycle operates in three phases, a sapling like fetus sprouting from the network, a four legged ambulatory creature whose shape is often determined by subspecies, and a tree that plants itself at the will of xylaan. 
	 - **Arcadian Court:** A court of archfey, settled in the Arcadian sea, these fey take the physical form of insects, flys, and other critters and hold the seat of power in xylann, storing and distributing its wealth of sugars. 
	 - **Seraphs:** A form of filter feeding sentient lichen, these creatures originate in a mist like layer of gaseous sugar that hovers above the forest. They are standoffish and prefer to make their home in large treetop settlements and ports. Adept scientists and beyond skilled with arcane magic and these creatures develop advanced technology in their cloud cites. 

 # Time and Cosmology
 - note
 # Theology
 # Continent divided into regions
 # Continent divided into regions
 # Continent divided into regions
 # Name Detail
 
